---
title: Insert title here
key: 2847e99af5600b3417ed8cd26d2804a3

---
## Introduction to RNN inside keras

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "a7bfabbdb4"
```

`@lower_third`

name: David Cecchini
title: Data Scientist, LegalBot & Demographics Pro


`@script`
In this lesson we are going to the practical implementation of the RNN models using keras.
Previously in this chapter we learned the architecture of the RNN cells, and now we will use keras to create and train RNN models.


---
## What is keras?

```yaml
type: "TwoRows"
key: "a6fc7ee15f"
```

`@part1`
Keras is a high-level API that can use Tensorflow, CNTK and Theano as background deep learning frameworks. 

Thus, in order to use keras, one of those frameworks should be installed (Tensorflow is used by default).


`@part2`
Easy to install and use: 

```
pip install keras
```

```
from keras.models import Sequential
from keras.layers import LSTM, Dense
```


`@script`
Keras is a high-level API with deep learning frameworks as background. It is possible to configure keras with Tensorflow initially from Google  and now open sourced (the default option), CNTK from Microsoft and Theano from University of Montreal and the chosen framework should be installed beforehand.
To install keras, we can simply use the Python package manager pip.
After installation, we can use the many pre-defined modules of keras such as models that contains useful classes and functions to create and manage neural networks models.
To create a model, we can stack different kinds of layers that will be applied to the data according to the architecture of the model (in sequence or not).


---
## Main keras modules

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "9fafe9f8fe"
```

`@part1`
**keras.models** contains the classes used to create and manage models: 
1. **Sequential** creates models where the next layer has the previous layer as input and the next layer as output
2. **Model** creates a generic model that can have multiple inputs and outputs (branches)

**keras.layers** contains the pre-defined layers available in keras:
1. **LSTM**, **GRU**, **Dense**, **Dropout**, **Embedding**, **Bidirectional**


`@script`
Now we will describe the main modules of keras that will be useful for the language models.
The first module is the keras.models which contains two classes of models: Sequential and Model. The Sequential model has a structure where each layer is applied to the model in sequence, meaning the output of one layer is the input of the next one.
The other class is a generic definition of model that is more flexible and allows multiple inputs and outputs.

keras.layers contains the different types of layers including the LSTM and GRU cells introduced before. Other layers that we will use are Dense, Dropout and Embedding


---
## Main keras modules (cont.)

```yaml
type: "TwoColumns"
key: "9d6fb85692"
```

`@part1`
**keras.preprocessing** has many functions for pre-processing the data

1. **sequence** contains the functions for pre-processing sequence data such as **pad_sequences**


`@part2`
**keras.datasets** contains many data science datasets ready to be loaded and used

1. **imdb** contains the famous movie reviews dataset for sentiment classification (binary)
2. **reuters** is another dataset for multi-class classification (46 topics of news articles)


`@script`
keras.preprocessing contains many useful function for pre-processing the data. We will use the sequence.pad_sequence method to pad the input texts into fixed-length vectors.
Finally, the keras.datasets module contains datasets ready to be used for experimentation. We will use the IMDB Movie Review dataset for sentiment classification and the Reuters news articles dataset for multi-class classification.


---
## Creating a model

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "d29b88e6ee"
```

`@part1`
It is easy to build a model in keras. Remarks:

1. The first layer (input layer) should specify the shape of the inputs
2. There are many activation functions to be used on each layer (or none, meaning that the layer will use identity function as activation)

A simple model with two dense layers:

```
from keras.models import Sequential
from keras.layers import Dense

model = Sequential()
model.add(Dense(64, activation='relu', input_dim=100))
model.add(Dense(1, activation='sigmoid'))
model.compile(optimizer='adam',
              loss='binary_crossentropy',
              metrics=['accuracy'])

```


`@script`
It is easy to build a model in keras, and there are just a few remarks to pay attention.
One remark is that the first layer (input layer) should specify the shape of the inputs, since the model is expecting a specific format of the data. The next layers are able to calculate their input shape based on the expected output shape of the previous layer.
Another remark is that there are many activation functions that can be used on each layer (or none, meaning that the layer will use identity function as activation). To chose the activation function is part of the model tuning, but as a general rule for deep networks is to use ReLU in the initial layers because it is fast to compute and softmax or sigmoid on the last one to determine the binary or multi-class output. Other activation function is the hyperbolic tangent that is used for example in the LSTM cell.


---
## Training the model

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "ca29abab37"
```

`@part1`
The method **fit** trains the model on the training set

```
model.fit(X_train, y_train, epochs=10, batch_size=32)
```

1. **epochs** determine how many weight updates will be done on the model
2. **batch_size** corresponds to the size of the data that will be used on each step to avoid memory errors (when the dataset cannot fit in the memory this is crucial)


`@script`
To train the model on the training set, we use the fit method. The parameters of the method include:
1. **epochs** which is the number of weight updates that will be done on the model. Defaults to one.
2. **batch_size** that corresponds to the size of the data that will be used on each step to avoid memory errors (when the dataset cannot fit in the memory this is crucial). Defaults to 32.


---
## Model evaluation and usage

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "f7bd2ea11c"
```

`@part1`
In order to analyze the model's performance, we can use the method **evaluate**.

```
mode.evaluate(X_test, y_test, batch_size=64)
```

The method **predict** is used on new data to obtain the outputs of the model.

```
model.predict(new_data, batch_size=64)
```


`@script`
In order to analyze the model's performance, we can use the method **evaluate**. This method returns the loss and accuracy values obtained on the test dataset.
The method **predict** is used on new data to obtain the outputs of the model.


---
## Full example: IMDB Sentiment Classification

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "7220f319a5"
```

`@part1`
The IMDB dataset is already loaded and the X sequences padded with size = 80

```
from keras.models import Sequential
from keras.layers import Dense, Embedding, LSTM

# Build the model
model = Sequential()
model.add(Embedding(10000, 128))
model.add(LSTM(128, dropout=0.2))
model.add(Dense(1, activation='sigmoid'))

# Compile with binary_crossentropy for binary classification
model.compile(loss='binary_crossentropy', optimizer='adam', metrics=['accuracy'])

# Training
model.fit(x_train, y_train, epochs=5)

# Evaluation
score, acc = model.evaluate(x_test, y_test)

print('Test score: {0}\nTest accuracy: {1}'.format(score, acc))

```


`@script`



---
## Time to practice!

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "b9e39fe9e5"
```

`@script`


